This water sensor kit is using the internal
flow cell for in-line monitoring using flexible
tubing to connect the building water to the
kit inlet.
Water exits the flow cell via the kit outlet
and is directed to a drain.
This sensor is monitoring conductivity and
temperature in real-time.
The information could be useful upstream and/or
downstream of a reverse osmosis unit to provide
high purity water.
In-line monitoring is the primary mode of
measurement.
The flow-thru cell is designed to connect
in-line with your existing water flow, all
that is needed is flexible tubing to connect
from your water stream to the flow cell.
If suitable, the sensor kit can be installed
in-line with the water stream being measured,
the connections on either end of the flow
cell are push-to-connect fittings and it does
not matter which side is the entrance and
which is the exit.
Most likely, it will be more convenient to
branch off the measured water stream with
a tee and connect that smaller stream to the
flow cell and discard the effluent to a drain
or storage tank with an appropriate length
of tube segment.
Here is another in-line monitoring example
but using an external flow cell that is part
of an existing process.
For this monitoring example of conductivity
and pH, water sensors are connected to the
BNC connectors on the kit and then the sensors
are inserted into the process flow cell.
Real-time readings for conductivity and pH
are displayed.
The advantage of this sensor application is
that it can be deployed quickly to troubleshot
a process and provide guidance on whether
permanent monitoring is required.
Here is a sensor used for drop-in monitoring
in an indoor setting.
Drop-in monitoring can be configured to monitor
numerous samples or processes throughout a
building or facility.
Drop-in monitoring is useful when it is easier
to drop the sensors into the water stream
or volume being measured instead of using
the flow cell.
Drop-in measurement involves connecting the
sensors to the external BNC connectors.
Conductivity and pH sensors are connected
to the sensor kit and used to monitor a water
sample or solution.
For drop-in monitoring the sensors are moved
from the internal flow cell to the BNC bulkhead
connectors.
Specifics about how to do the conversion are
in the Mobile Water Sensor Handbook in Resources.
This is an outdoor setting example for drop-in
monitoring.
The sensors are deployed in surface water
to analyze conductivity and pH.
Other outdoor drop-in monitoring might be
useful in decorative fountains, stormwater
impoundments, and outdoor water bodies.
Remember, the heavy-duty construction of the
water sensor kit and case allows it to be
used indoors or outdoors.